docs/pipelines/tasks/utility/publish-pipeline-artifact.md, before:

---
title: Publish Pipeline Artifacts task
description: Publish artifacts to Azure Pipelines.
ms.topic: reference
ms.prod: devops
ms.technology: devops-cicd
ms.assetid: 01533845-5D63-4DAC-97DF-D55F1E4DCF53
ms.manager: jillfra
ms.custom: seodec18
ms.author: wismyth
author: willsmythe
ms.date: 12/07/2018
---

# Publish Pipeline Artifact task

**Azure Pipelines**

Use this task in a build pipeline to publish pipeline artifacts to Azure Pipeline (note that publishing is only supported in build pipelines).

> [!TIP]
> Looking to get started working with build artifacts? See [Artifacts in Azure Pipelines](../../artifacts/pipeline-artifacts.md).

## Demand

None

## YAML snippet

[!INCLUDE [temp](../_shared/yaml/PublishPipelineArtifactV1.md)]

## Arguments


| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| path | Path to the folder or file you want to publish. The path must be a fully-qualified path or a valid path relative to the root directory of your repository. See [Artifacts in Azure Pipelines](../../artifacts/pipeline-artifacts.md). |
| artifactName | Specify the name of the artifact that you want to create. It can be whatever you want. For example: `drop` |
| [!INCLUDE [control-options-arguments-md](../_shared/control-options-arguments-md.md)] | |

## Open source

This task is open source [on GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-pipelines-tasks). Feedback and contributions are welcome.

## Q & A

<!-- BEGINSECTION class="md-qanda" -->

[!INCLUDE [temp](../_shared/build-step-common-qa.md)]

<!-- ENDSECTION -->

Commit message:

clarify use in relation to release pipelines
Saying it only works for build pipelines doesn't work in relation to multi stage and yaml pipelines

docs/pipelines/tasks/utility/publish-pipeline-artifact.md, after:

---
title: Publish Pipeline Artifacts task
description: Publish artifacts to Azure Pipelines.
ms.topic: reference
ms.prod: devops
ms.technology: devops-cicd
ms.assetid: 01533845-5D63-4DAC-97DF-D55F1E4DCF53
ms.manager: jillfra
ms.custom: seodec18
ms.author: wismyth
author: willsmythe
ms.date: 12/07/2018
---

# Publish Pipeline Artifact task

**Azure Pipelines**

Use this task in a pipeline to publish artifacts for the Azure Pipeline (note that publishing is NOT supported in release pipelines, it is supported in multi stage pipelines, build pipelines and yaml pipelines).

> [!TIP]
> Looking to get started working with build artifacts? See [Artifacts in Azure Pipelines](../../artifacts/pipeline-artifacts.md).

## Demand

None

## YAML snippet

[!INCLUDE [temp](../_shared/yaml/PublishPipelineArtifactV1.md)]

## Arguments


| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| path | Path to the folder or file you want to publish. The path must be a fully-qualified path or a valid path relative to the root directory of your repository. See [Artifacts in Azure Pipelines](../../artifacts/pipeline-artifacts.md). |
| artifactName | Specify the name of the artifact that you want to create. It can be whatever you want. For example: `drop` |
| [!INCLUDE [control-options-arguments-md](../_shared/control-options-arguments-md.md)] | |

## Open source

This task is open source [on GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/azure-pipelines-tasks). Feedback and contributions are welcome.

## Q & A

<!-- BEGINSECTION class="md-qanda" -->

[!INCLUDE [temp](../_shared/build-step-common-qa.md)]

<!-- ENDSECTION -->
