docs/pipelines/agents/includes/v2/unattended-config.md, before:

---
ms.topic: include
ms.technology: devops-cicd
ms.manager: mijacobs
ms.author: sdanie
author: steved0x
ms.date: 02/12/2020
---

To configure an agent, it must know the URL to your organization or collection and credentials of someone authorized to set up agents.
All other responses are optional.
Any command-line parameter can be specified using an environment variable instead:
put its name in upper case and prepend `VSTS_AGENT_INPUT_`.
For example, `VSTS_AGENT_INPUT_PASSWORD` instead of specifying `--password`.

### Required options

- `--unattended` - agent setup will not prompt for information, and all settings must be provided on the command line
- `--url <url>` - URL of the server. For example: https://dev.azure.com/myorganization or http://my-azure-devops-server:8080/tfs
- `--auth <type>` - authentication type. Valid values are:
  - `pat` (Personal access token)
  - `negotiate` (Kerberos or NTLM)
  - `alt` (Basic authentication)
  - `integrated` (Windows default credentials)

### Authentication options

- If you chose `--auth pat`:
  - `--token <token>` - specifies your personal access token
- If you chose `--auth negotiate` or `--auth alt`:
  - `--userName <userName>` - specifies a Windows username in the format `domain\userName` or `userName@domain.com`
  - `--password <password>` - specifies a password

### Pool and agent names
- `--pool <pool>` - pool name for the agent to join
- `--agent <agent>` - agent name
- `--replace` - replace the agent in a pool. If another agent is listening by the same name, it will start failing with a conflict

### Agent setup
- `--work <workDirectory>` - work directory where job data is stored. Defaults to `_work` under the
root of the agent directory. The work directory is owned by a given
agent and should not be shared between multiple agents.
- `--acceptTeeEula` - accept the Team Explorer Everywhere End User License Agreement (macOS and Linux only)
- `--disableloguploads` - don't stream or send console log output to the server. Instead, you may retrieve them from the agent host's filesystem after the job completes.

### Windows-only startup
- `--runAsService` - configure the agent to run as a Windows service (requires administrator permission)
- `--runAsAutoLogon` - configure auto-logon and run the agent on startup (requires administrator permission)
- `--windowsLogonAccount <account>` - used with `--runAsService` or `--runAsAutoLogon` to specify the Windows user
name in the format `domain\userName` or `userName@domain.com`
- `--windowsLogonPassword <password>` - used with `--runAsService` or `--runAsAutoLogon` to specify Windows logon password
- `--overwriteAutoLogon` - used with `--runAsAutoLogon` to overwrite the existing auto logon on the machine
- `--noRestart` - used with `--runAsAutoLogon` to stop the host from restarting after agent configuration completes

### Deployment group only
- `--deploymentGroup` - configure the agent as a deployment group agent
- `--deploymentGroupName <name>` - used with `--deploymentGroup` to specify the deployment group for the agent to join
- `--projectName <name>` - used with `--deploymentGroup` to set the project name
- `--addDeploymentGroupTags` - used with `--deploymentGroup` to indicate that deployment group tags should be added
- `--deploymentGroupTags <tags>` - used with `--addDeploymentGroupTags` to specify the comma separated list of tags for
the deployment group agent - for example "web, db"

### Environments only
- `--addvirtualmachineresourcetags` - used to indicate that environment resource tags should be added
- `--virtualmachineresourcetags  <tags>` - used with `--addvirtualmachineresourcetags` to specify the comma separated list of tags for
the environment resource agent - for example "web, db"

Commit message:

Added documentation for new agent capability AllowWorkDirectoryRepositories

docs/pipelines/agents/includes/v2/unattended-config.md, after:

---
ms.topic: include
ms.technology: devops-cicd
ms.manager: mijacobs
ms.author: sdanie
author: steved0x
ms.date: 02/12/2020
---

To configure an agent, it must know the URL to your organization or collection and credentials of someone authorized to set up agents.
All other responses are optional.
Any command-line parameter can be specified using an environment variable instead:
put its name in upper case and prepend `VSTS_AGENT_INPUT_`.
For example, `VSTS_AGENT_INPUT_PASSWORD` instead of specifying `--password`.

### Required options

- `--unattended` - agent setup will not prompt for information, and all settings must be provided on the command line
- `--url <url>` - URL of the server. For example: https://dev.azure.com/myorganization or http://my-azure-devops-server:8080/tfs
- `--auth <type>` - authentication type. Valid values are:
  - `pat` (Personal access token)
  - `negotiate` (Kerberos or NTLM)
  - `alt` (Basic authentication)
  - `integrated` (Windows default credentials)

### Authentication options

- If you chose `--auth pat`:
  - `--token <token>` - specifies your personal access token
- If you chose `--auth negotiate` or `--auth alt`:
  - `--userName <userName>` - specifies a Windows username in the format `domain\userName` or `userName@domain.com`
  - `--password <password>` - specifies a password

### Pool and agent names
- `--pool <pool>` - pool name for the agent to join
- `--agent <agent>` - agent name
- `--replace` - replace the agent in a pool. If another agent is listening by the same name, it will start failing with a conflict

### Agent setup
- `--work <workDirectory>` - work directory where job data is stored. Defaults to `_work` under the
root of the agent directory. The work directory is owned by a given
agent and should not be shared between multiple agents.
- `--acceptTeeEula` - accept the Team Explorer Everywhere End User License Agreement (macOS and Linux only)
- `--disableloguploads` - don't stream or send console log output to the server. Instead, you may retrieve them from the agent host's filesystem after the job completes.
- `--allowWorkDirectoryRepositories` - allow repositories to be checked out below the work directory of the agent (e.g. `C:/agent/_work/Repositories/MyRepo1`) by using the prefix `../` at the beginning of the checkout path, instead of only allowing them below the build pipeline directory (e.g. `C:/agent/_work/1/s/MyRepo1`)

### Windows-only startup
- `--runAsService` - configure the agent to run as a Windows service (requires administrator permission)
- `--runAsAutoLogon` - configure auto-logon and run the agent on startup (requires administrator permission)
- `--windowsLogonAccount <account>` - used with `--runAsService` or `--runAsAutoLogon` to specify the Windows user
name in the format `domain\userName` or `userName@domain.com`
- `--windowsLogonPassword <password>` - used with `--runAsService` or `--runAsAutoLogon` to specify Windows logon password
- `--overwriteAutoLogon` - used with `--runAsAutoLogon` to overwrite the existing auto logon on the machine
- `--noRestart` - used with `--runAsAutoLogon` to stop the host from restarting after agent configuration completes

### Deployment group only
- `--deploymentGroup` - configure the agent as a deployment group agent
- `--deploymentGroupName <name>` - used with `--deploymentGroup` to specify the deployment group for the agent to join
- `--projectName <name>` - used with `--deploymentGroup` to set the project name
- `--addDeploymentGroupTags` - used with `--deploymentGroup` to indicate that deployment group tags should be added
- `--deploymentGroupTags <tags>` - used with `--addDeploymentGroupTags` to specify the comma separated list of tags for
the deployment group agent - for example "web, db"

### Environments only
- `--addvirtualmachineresourcetags` - used to indicate that environment resource tags should be added
- `--virtualmachineresourcetags  <tags>` - used with `--addvirtualmachineresourcetags` to specify the comma separated list of tags for
the environment resource agent - for example "web, db"
