---
title: Troubleshoot pipeline runs
description: Learn how to troubleshoot pipeline runs in Azure Pipelines using logs, error analysis tools, and common techniques to resolve issues.
ms.assetid: BFCB144F-9E9B-4FCB-9CD1-260D6873BC2E
ms.author: sdanie
ms.reviewer: steved0x
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/25/2025
monikerRange: '<= azure-devops'
author: steved0x
---

# Troubleshoot pipeline runs

[!INCLUDE [version-lt-eq-azure-devops](../../includes/version-lt-eq-azure-devops.md)]

If your pipeline run fails to complete, use the diagnostic information and logs on the pipeline run summary page to troubleshoot the issue. This guide provides instructions for diagnosing pipeline failures using logs, error analysis tools, and common troubleshooting techniques. Learn how to identify root causes and implement solutions to keep your pipelines running smoothly.

:::image type="content" source="./media/pipeline-run-summary-troubleshooting.png" lightbox="./media/pipeline-run-summary-troubleshooting.png" alt-text="Screenshot of pipeline run summary page with diagnostic information.":::

<a id="get-logs-to-diagnose-problems"></a>

## View logs

Select the error message to view logs for the task that didn't complete.

:::image type="content" source="./media/error-message.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a task error message on pipeline run summary page.":::

The logs page shows the selected error. In this example, there's an error in the `cmd-line` task, where the `echo` command is entered as `ech`.

:::image type="content" source="./media/task-error-log.png" lightbox="./media/task-error-log.png" alt-text="Screenshot of diagnostics log for the pipeline run.":::

You can view the raw log for the task by choosing **View raw log**, and you can search the log using **Find**.

:::image type="content" source="./media/view-raw-log.png" alt-text="Screenshot of log view options in Azure DevOps.":::

Scan the logs of the failing task for error information and clues as to why the task is failing. By default, nonverbose logs are generated by a pipeline run. If the default logs don't indicate the cause of the issue, you can get more information by [configuring verbose logs](./review-logs.md#configure-verbose-logs).

:::moniker range=">= azure-devops-2020"

## Error analysis page

Troubleshooting assistance is available using the **Error analysis** page. Move the mouse over the error information line and choose the **View analysis** icon.

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="azure-devops"

:::image type="content" source="./media/pipeline-error-analysis-icon.png" alt-text="Screenshot of view analysis icon on pipeline run summary page.":::

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= azure-devops-2020 < azure-devops"

:::image type="content" source="./media/pipeline-error-analysis-icon-server.png" alt-text="Screenshot of view analysis icon for Azure DevOps Server.":::

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= azure-devops-2020"

Choose **View agent** for self-hosted agents (or **About hosted agent image** for Microsoft-hosted agents) to view more information about the agent used to run the pipeline, and **View log** to view the pipeline run logs.

:::image type="content" source="./media/error-analysis.png" alt-text="Screenshot of error analysis page in Azure DevOps portal.":::

Choose the name of the task below **Run-time details** to view information about the task.

:::image type="content" source="./media/task-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot of task details from error analysis.":::

In this example, you can see that there's an error in the `Value` of the `Script`. Choose **About this task** to view the documentation for the task.

:::moniker-end

If the issue isn't apparent from the pipeline run summary page or browsing the logs, check the following [Common issues](#common-issues) section, and see [Review logs to diagnose pipeline issues](./review-logs.md) for information on downloading complete logs which include more diagnostic information.

<a name="my-pipeline-starts-but-fails-to-complete-successfully"></a>

## Common issues

* [This pipeline needs permission to access a resource before this run can continue](#this-pipeline-needs-permission-to-access-a-resource-before-this-run-can-continue)
* [Job time-out](#job-time-out)
* [Issues downloading code](#issues-downloading-code)
* [My pipeline is failing on a command-line step such as MSBUILD](#my-pipeline-is-failing-on-a-command-line-step-such-as-msbuild)
* [File or folder in use errors](#file-or-folder-in-use-errors)
* [Intermittent or inconsistent MSBuild failures](#intermittent-or-inconsistent-msbuild-failures)
* [Process stops responding](#process-stops-responding)
* [Line endings for multiple platforms](#line-endings-for-multiple-platforms)
* [Variables having ' (single quote) appended](#variables-having--single-quote-appended)
* [Service Connection related issues](#service-connection-related-issues)
* [Pipeline stopped hearing from agent](#pipeline-stopped-hearing-from-agent)

:::moniker range="azure-devops"

### Task insights for failed pipeline runs

Azure DevOps provides a **Task Insights for Failed Pipeline Runs** setting, that when enabled, provides pop-up notifications of build failures with a link to view a report.

:::image type="content" source="../get-started/media/task-insights.png" alt-text="Screenshot of task insights metrics.":::

To configure this setting, navigate to [Preview features](../../project/navigation/preview-features.md), find **Task Insights for Failed Pipeline Runs**, and choose the desired setting.

:::image type="content" source="../get-started/media/task-insights-setting.png" alt-text="Screenshot of task insights for failed pipeline runs setting.":::

### Notifications for failed runs

Azure DevOps includes build-in notifications for failed pipeline runs. To enable notifications:

1. Go to **Project settings** > **Notifications** for your project. 
1. Choose what type of notification you want to receive. To be notified each time a pipeline run fails, select **A build fails**.

:::image type="content" source="media/notification-settings.png" alt-text="Screenshot of notifications in project settings.":::

:::moniker-end

### This pipeline needs permission to access a resource before this run can continue

If your pipeline doesn't seem to start, or you receive an error message like `This pipeline needs permission to access a resource before this run can continue`, check to see if the pipeline is waiting for an authrization to run by a resource, like a service connection or agent pool.

1. [Go to the pipeline](../create-first-pipeline.md#view-and-manage-your-pipelines) and manually start a run.
1. The message **This pipeline needs permission to access a resource before this run can continue** appears. Select **View** next to the message.
1. On the **Waiting for review** screen, select **Permit**, and on the confirmation screen, select **Permit** again.

This action explictly adds the pipeline as an authorized user of the resource.

Some resources allow you to configure **Open access** so that each new pipeline definition doesn't require explicit authorization.

* To configure **Open access** for agent pools, see [Set pipeline permissions for an individual agent pool](../policies/permissions.md#set-pipeline-permissions-for-an-individual-agent-pool) and [Pipeline permissions](../agents/pools-queues.md#pipeline-permissions).
* To review whether **Open access** is available for other [resource types](../process/resources.md#resource-authorization-in-yaml-pipelines), see [Manage security in Azure Pipelines](../policies/permissions.md) and search for **Open access**.

### Job time-out

A pipeline can run for a long time and then fail due to job time-out. 
Job timeout closely depends on the agent being used. Free Microsoft hosted agents have a max timeout of 60 minutes per job for a private repository and 360 minutes for a public repository.

To increase the max timeout for a job, you can opt for any of the following.
* Buy a Microsoft hosted agent which gives you 360 minutes for all jobs, irrespective of the repository used
* Use a self-hosted agent to rule out any timeout issues due to the agent

Learn more about job [timeout](../process/phases.md#timeouts).

> [!NOTE]
> If your Microsoft-hosted agent jobs are timing out, verify that your pipeline timeout is set to a larger value than the max timeout for a job. To check, see [Timeouts](../process/phases.md#timeouts).

### Issues downloading code

* [My pipeline is failing on a checkout step](#my-pipeline-is-failing-on-a-checkout-step)
* [Team Foundation Version Control (TFVC) issues](#team-foundation-version-control-tfvc-issues)

#### My pipeline is failing on a checkout step

If you're using a `checkout` step on an Azure Repos Git repository in your organization that is in a different project than your pipeline, ensure that the **Limit job authorization scope to current project** setting is disabled, or follow the steps in [Scoped build identities](../build/options.md) to ensure that your pipeline has access to the repository.

When your pipeline can't access the repository due to limited job authorization scope, you'll receive the error `Git fetch failed with exit code 128` and your logs contain an entry similar to `Remote: TF401019: The Git repository with name or identifier <your repo name> does not exist or you do not have permissions for the operation you are attempting.`

If your pipeline is failing immediately with `Could not find a project that corresponds with the repository`, ensure that your project and repository name are correct in the `checkout` step or the repository resource declaration.

#### Team Foundation Version Control (TFVC) issues

* [Get sources not downloading some files](#get-sources-not-downloading-some-files)
* [Get sources through Team Foundation Proxy](#get-sources-through-team-foundation-proxy)

##### Get sources not downloading some files

You might see a message in the log "All files up to date" from the `tf get` command. Verify the built-in service identity has permission to download the sources. Either the identity *Project Collection Build Service* or *Project Build Service* need permission to download the sources, depending on the selected authorization scope on General tab of the build pipeline. In the version control web UI, you can browse the project files at any level of the folder hierarchy and check the security settings.

##### Get sources through Team Foundation Proxy

The easiest way to configure the agent to get sources through a Team Foundation Proxy is set environment variable `TFSPROXY` that point to the TFVC proxy server for the agent's run as user.

Windows:
```cmd
    set TFSPROXY=http://tfvcproxy:8081
    setx TFSPROXY=http://tfvcproxy:8081 // If the agent service is running as NETWORKSERVICE or any service account you can't easily set user level environment variable
```
macOS/Linux:
```bash
    export TFSPROXY=http://tfvcproxy:8081
```


### My pipeline is failing on a command-line step such as MSBUILD

It's helpful to narrow whether a build or release failure is the result of an Azure Pipelines product issue (agent or tasks). Build and release failures might also result from external commands.

Check the logs for the exact command-line executed by the failing task. Attempting to run the command locally from the command line might reproduce the issue. It can be helpful to run the command locally from your own machine, and/or sign in to the machine and run the command as the service account.

For example, is the problem happening during the MSBuild part of your build pipeline (for example, are you using either the [MSBuild](/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/msbuild-v1) or [Visual Studio Build](/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/vsbuild-v1) task)? If so, then try running the same [MSBuild command](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-command-line-reference) on a local machine using the same arguments. If you can reproduce the problem on a local machine, then your next steps are to investigate the [MSBuild](/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild) problem.


::: moniker range="azure-devops"

#### File layout

The location of tools, libraries, headers, and other things needed for a build might be different on the hosted agent than from your local machine.
If a build fails because it can't find one of these files, you can use the below scripts to inspect the layout on the agent.
This might help you track down the missing file.

Create a new YAML pipeline in a temporary location (for example, a new repo created for the purpose of troubleshooting).
As written, the script searches directories on your path.
You can optionally edit the `SEARCH_PATH=` line to search other places.

```yaml
# Script for Linux and macOS
pool: { vmImage: ubuntu-latest } # or whatever pool you use
steps:
- checkout: none
- bash: |
    SEARCH_PATH=$PATH  # or any colon-delimited list of paths
    IFS=':' read -r -a PathDirs <<< "$SEARCH_PATH"
    echo "##[debug] Found directories"
    for element in "${PathDirs[@]}"; do
        echo "$element"
    done;
    echo;
    echo;  
    echo "##[debug] Found files"
    for element in "${PathDirs[@]}"; do
        find "$element" -type f
    done
```

```yaml
# Script for Windows
pool: { vmImage: windows-2019 } # or whatever pool you use
steps:
- checkout: none
- powershell: |
    $SEARCH_PATH=$Env:Path
    Write-Host "##[debug] Found directories"
    ForEach ($Dir in $SEARCH_PATH -split ";") {
      Write-Host "$Dir"
    }
    Write-Host ""
    Write-Host ""
    Write-Host "##[debug] Found files"
    ForEach ($Dir in $SEARCH_PATH -split ";") {
      Get-ChildItem $Dir -File -ErrorAction Continue | ForEach-Object -Process {
        Write-Host $_.FullName
      }
    }
```

::: moniker-end

#### Differences between local command prompt and agent

Keep in mind, some differences are in effect when executing a command on a local machine and when a build or release is running on an agent. If the agent is configured to run as a service on Linux, macOS, or Windows, then it isn't running within an interactive logged-on session. Without an interactive logged-on session, UI interaction and other limitations exist.



### File or folder in use errors

`File or folder in use` errors are indicated by error messages such as: 

* `Access to the path [...] is denied.`
* `The process cannot access the file [...] because it is being used by another process.`
* `Access is denied.`
* `Can't move [...] to [...]`

Troubleshooting steps:

* [Detect files and folders in use](#detect-files-and-folders-in-use)
* [Anti-virus exclusion](#anti-virus-exclusion)
* [MSBuild and /nodeReuse:false](#msbuild-and-nodereusefalse)
* [MSBuild and /maxcpucount:[n]](#msbuild-and-maxcpucountn)

#### Detect files and folders in use

On Windows, tools like [Process Monitor](/sysinternals/downloads/procmon) can be to capture a trace of file events under a specific directory. Or, for a snapshot in time, tools like [Process Explorer](/sysinternals/downloads/process-explorer) or [Handle](/sysinternals/downloads/handle) can be used.

#### Anti-virus exclusion

Anti-virus software scanning your files can cause file or folder in use errors during a build or release. Adding an anti-virus exclusion for your agent directory and configured "work folder" can help to identify anti-virus software as the interfering process.

#### MSBuild and /nodeReuse:false

If you invoke MSBuild during your build, make sure to pass the argument `/nodeReuse:false` (short form `/nr:false`). Otherwise MSBuild processes continue running after the build completes. The processes remain for some time in anticipation of a potential subsequent build.

This feature of MSBuild can interfere with attempts to delete or move a directory - due to a conflict with the working directory of the MSBuild processes.

The MSBuild and Visual Studio Build tasks already add `/nr:false` to the arguments passed to MSBuild. However, if you invoke MSBuild from your own script, then you would need to specify the argument.

<!-- This header is linked internally from this document. Any changes to the header text must be made to the link as well. -->
#### MSBuild and /maxcpucount:[n]

By default the build tasks such as [MSBuild](/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/msbuild-v1) and [Visual Studio Build](/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/vsbuild-v1) run MSBuild with the `/m` switch. In some cases this can cause problems such as multiple process file access issues.

Try adding the `/m:1` argument to your build tasks to force MSBuild to run only one process at a time.

File-in-use issues might result when leveraging the concurrent-process feature of MSBuild. Not specifying the argument `/maxcpucount:[n]` (short form `/m:[n]`) instructs MSBuild to use a single process only. If you're using the MSBuild or Visual Studio Build tasks, you might need to specify "/m:1" to override the "/m" argument that is added by default.

### Intermittent or inconsistent MSBuild failures

If you're experiencing intermittent or inconsistent MSBuild failures, try instructing MSBuild to use a single-process only. Intermittent or inconsistent errors might indicate that your target configuration is incompatible with the concurrent-process feature of MSBuild. See [MSBuild and /maxcpucount:[n]](#msbuild-and-maxcpucountn).

### Process stops responding

Process stops responding causes and troubleshooting steps:

* [Waiting for Input](#waiting-for-input)
* [Process dump](#process-dump)
* [WiX project](#wix-project)

#### Waiting for Input

A process that stops responding might indicate that a process is waiting for input.

Running the agent from the command line of an interactive logged on session might help to identify whether a process is prompting with a dialog for input.

Running the agent as a service might help to eliminate programs from prompting for input. For example in .NET, programs might rely on the System.Environment.UserInteractive Boolean to determine whether to prompt. When the agent is running as a Windows service, the value is false.

#### Process dump

Analyzing a dump of the process can help to identify what a deadlocked process is waiting on.

#### WiX project

Building a WiX project when custom MSBuild loggers are enabled, can cause WiX to deadlock waiting on the output stream. Adding the additional MSBuild argument `/p:RunWixToolsOutOfProc=true` works around the issue.

### Line endings for multiple platforms

When you run pipelines on multiple platforms, you can sometimes encounter problems with different line endings.
Historically, Linux and macOS used linefeed (LF) characters while Windows used a carriage return plus a linefeed (CRLF).
Git tries to compensate for the difference by automatically making lines end in LF in the repo but CRLF in the working directory on Windows.

Most Windows tools are fine with LF-only endings, and this automatic behavior can cause more problems than it solves.
If you encounter issues based on line endings, we recommend you configure Git to prefer LF everywhere.
To do this, add a [`.gitattributes`](https://www.git-scm.com/docs/gitattributes) file to the root of your repository.
In that file, add the following line:

```
* text eol=lf
```

### Variables having ' (single quote) appended

If your pipeline includes a Bash script that sets variables using the `##vso` command, you might see another `'` appended to the value of the variable you set.
This occurs because of an interaction with `set -x`.
The solution is to disable `set -x` temporarily before setting a variable.
The Bash syntax for doing that is `set +x`.

```bash
set +x
echo ##vso[task.setvariable variable=MY_VAR]my_value
set -x
```

#### Why does this happen?

Many Bash scripts include the `set -x` command to assist with debugging.
Bash traces exactly what command was executed and echo it to stdout.
This causes the agent to see the `##vso` command twice, and the second time, Bash will have added the `'` character to the end.

For instance, consider this pipeline:

```yaml
steps:
- bash: |
    set -x
    echo ##vso[task.setvariable variable=MY_VAR]my_value
```

On stdout, the agent sees two lines:
```bash
##vso[task.setvariable variable=MY_VAR]my_value
+ echo '##vso[task.setvariable variable=MY_VAR]my_value'
```

When the agent sees the first line, `MY_VAR` will be set to the correct value, "my_value".
However, when it sees the second line, the agent processes everything to the end of the line.
`MY_VAR` is set to "my_value'".

### Libraries aren't installed for Python application when script executes 

When a Python application is deployed, in some cases, a CI/CD pipeline runs and the code is deployed successfully, but the *requirements.txt* file that's responsible for installing all dependency libraries doesn't execute. 

To install the dependencies, use a post-deployment script in the App Service deployment task. The following example shows the command you must use in the post-deployment script. You can update the script for your scenario.

```
D:\home\python364x64\python.exe -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```


### Service Connection related issues

To troubleshoot issues related to service connections, see [Service connection troubleshooting](../release/azure-rm-endpoint.md). To specifically troubleshoot service connections using workload identity for authentication, see [Troubleshoot workload identity service connections](../release/troubleshoot-workload-identity.md).

### Pipeline stopped hearing from agent

If your pipeline fails with a message like `We stopped hearing from agent <agent name>. Verify the agent machine is running and has a healthy network connection.`, check the resource utilization of the agent to see if the agent machine is running out of resources. Starting with [Sprint 228](/azure/devops/release-notes/2023/sprint-228-update), [Azure Pipelines logs contain resource utilization metrics](/azure/devops/release-notes/2023/sprint-228-update#pipeline-logs-now-contain-resource-utilization) for each step.

When using Azure DevOps Services, you can see resource utilization in the logs, including disk usage, memory usage, and CPU utilization, by enabling [verbose logs](review-logs.md#configure-verbose-logs). When the pipeline completes, [search the logs](review-logs.md#view-and-download-logs) for `Agent environment resources` entries for each step.

```
2024-02-28T17:41:15.1315148Z ##[debug]Agent environment resources - Disk: D:\ Available 12342.00 MB out of 14333.00 MB, Memory: Used 1907.00 MB out of 7167.00 MB, CPU: Usage 17.23%
```

For information on capturing additional resource utilization logs, see [Capture resource utilization details](review-logs.md#capture-resource-utilization-details).


#### Enable Storage Explorer to deploy static content like .css and .js to a static website from Azure DevOps via Azure Pipelines

In this scenario, you can use the [Azure File Copy task](/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/reference/azure-file-copy-v4) to upload content to the website. You can use any of the tools described in [Uploading content](/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-static-website#uploading-content) to upload content to the web container.

## Next steps

* [Review logs](./review-logs.md) to uncover additional diagnostic tools.  