---
title: Resolve Command
titleSuffix: Azure Repos
description: Resolve Command
ms.assetid: de5698a0-4e04-45b9-9dbe-3f78706919b3
ms.prod: devops
ms.technology: devops-code-tfvc
ms.manager: jillfra
ms.author: sdanie
author: steved0x
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 08/10/2016
monikerRange: '>= tfs-2015'
---


# Resolve Command

#### Azure Repos | TFS 2018 | TFS 2017 | TFS 2015 | VS 2017 | VS 2015 | VS 2013

Lets you resolve conflicts between changed items in your workspace and the latest or destination versions of items on the server.

**Required Permissions**

To use the **resolve** command, you must be either the workspace owner or have the global **Administer workspaces** permission set to **Allow**. You must also have the **Read** and **Check out** permissions for the items involved in a resolve operation set to **Allow**. For more information, see [Permissions and groups reference](../../organizations/security/permissions.md).

    tf resolve [itemspec] 
    [/auto:(AutoMerge|TakeTheirs|KeepYours|OverwriteLocal|DeleteConflict|KeepYoursRenameTheirs)] 
    [/preview] [(/overridetype:overridetype | /converttotype:converttype] [/recursive] [/newname:path] [/noprompt] [/login:username, [password]]
## Parameters

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th><p><strong>Argument</strong></p></th>
<th><p><strong>Description</strong></p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><p><em>Itemspec</em></p></td>
<td><p>Used to identify the file or folder for which to resolve version conflicts. If omitted, all items with conflicts will be included. For more information about how Visual Studio Team Foundation Server parses itemspecs to determine which items are within scope, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/56f7w6be">Command-Line Syntax (Version Control)</a>.</p>
<div class="alert">
<div class="mtps-table" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<div class="mtps-row">
**Note**
</div>
<div class="mtps-row">
You can specify more than one *Itemspec* argument.
</div>
</div>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><em>overridetype</em></p></td>
<td><p>Used with the <strong>/overridetype</strong> option. Specifies the encoding type of the files involved. For example; binary.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><em>converttype</em></p></td>
<td><p>Used with the <strong>/converttotype</strong> option. Specifies the encoding type, such as &quot;unicode.&quot;</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><em>path</em></p></td>
<td><p>Used with the <strong>/newname</strong> option. Specifies the new path of the affected file or folder</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><em>username</em></p></td>
<td><p>Provides a value to the <strong>/login</strong> option. You can specify a username value as either <em>DOMAIN</em>\<em>UserName</em> or <em>UserName</em>.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th><p><strong>Option</strong></p></th>
<th><p><strong>Description</strong></p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><p><strong>/auto</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Resolves outstanding conflicts between different versions of specified items in the current workspace using one of the following options:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>AutoMerge</strong>   Automatically reconciles non-overlapping content differences between the specified workspace version of an item and the latest server version.</p>
<p>If differences cannot be reconciled automatically, either because the file is binary or because the workspace and server versions contain overlapping content changes, the conflict remains unresolved pending the selection of one of the following manual merge options.</p></li>
<li><p>The <strong>TakeTheirs</strong> option instructs Team Foundation Server to overwrite workspace revisions with the server revision. Further, for conflicts generated by running the <strong>Merge</strong> command, this option accepts the changes from the source of the merge and overwrites the changes in the target.</p></li>
<li><p>The <strong>KeepYours</strong> option instructs Team Foundation Server to keep your changes and discard the changes in the server version of an item. For conflicts generated by running the <strong>Merge</strong> command, this option discards the changes from the source of the merge and leaves the target unchanged.</p></li>
<li><p>The <strong>OverwriteLocal</strong> option overwrites the file in your workspace with the server version. This is used to resolve conflicts that arise from a writable file in your workspace.</p></li>
<li><p>The <strong>DeleteConflict</strong> option removes a conflict from the conflict table, and the option/description table.</p></li>
<li><p>The <strong>KeepYoursRenameTheirs</strong> option accepts the contents and name of your file and renames their file to a new name that the user specifies. This option requires a single-item filespec, and the <strong>/newname</strong> option must also be included.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><strong>/preview</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Displays current conflicts but does nothing with them.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><strong>/overridetype</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Specifies optional encoding for files involved in a three-way merge. The files are treated as the specified encoding. You must determine the correct encoding. Team Foundation Server saves the resulting merge output in the specified encoding in your workspace. For more information about file encodings, see <a href="/azure/devops/server/admin/manage-file-types">Managing File Types</a>.</p>
<div class="alert">
<div class="mtps-table" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<div class="mtps-row">
**Note**
</div>
<div class="mtps-row">
You cannot specify both an **/overridetype** and a **/converttotype**.
</div>
</div>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><strong>/converttotype</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Specifies the encoding used for temporary conversion for the input in a three-way merge operation. The merge output is saved in the specified encoding in your workspace. This option is an advanced option and seldom used. For more information about file encodings, see <a href="/azure/devops/server/admin/manage-file-types">Managing File Types</a>.</p>
<div class="alert">
<div class="mtps-table" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<div class="mtps-row">
**Note**
</div>
<div class="mtps-row">
You cannot specify both an **/overridetype** and a **/converttotype**.
</div>
</div>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><strong>/recursive</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Resolves items in the specific directory and subdirectories.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><strong>/newname</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Option used to resolve a name collision conflict. Can only be used in conjunction with <strong>AutoMerge</strong> and <strong>KeepYoursRenameTheirs</strong>. With <strong>AutoMerge</strong>, <strong>/newname</strong> is only valid with conflicts that involve rename and/or undelete. If used, you must supply a new <em>path</em>.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><strong>/login</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Specifies the user name and password to authenticate the user with Team Foundation Server.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><strong>/noprompt</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Suppresses any prompts for input.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
## Remarks
You can use the **Resolve** command to select a resolution for pending changes that conflict with the server version.

If version conflicts are detected between your version and the version on the destination server during a get, check-in, or merge operation, a prompt appears for you to select a conflict resolution using the **resolve** command. You must resolve conflicts before you can check in your pending changes.

For more information on how to find the **tf** command-line utility, see [Tf Command-Line Utility Commands](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/z51z7zy0).
## Examples
The following example invokes the **Resolve Conflicts** dialog box so that you can tell Team Foundation Server how to deal with pending changes that conflict with the server version.

    tf resolve

The following example attempts to resolve all conflicts by automatically merging the changes.

    tf resolve /auto:automerge

## See Also

#### Reference

[Command-Line Syntax (Version Control)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/56f7w6be)

[Merge Command](merge-command.md)

[Get Command](get-command.md)

[Checkin Command](checkin-command.md)

[Difference Command](difference-command.md)

#### Concepts

[Managing File Types](/azure/devops/server/admin/manage-file-types)

#### Other Resources

[Tf Command-Line Utility Commands](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/z51z7zy0)

[Resolving Folder Differences and File Conflicts](resolve-team-foundation-version-control-conflicts.md)

[Comparing Folders and Files](compare-folders-files.md)
